.github/issue_template.md, before:

<!--
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR HELP OR HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT IMPLEMENTATION?
If so, then STOP right there! We have a dedicated [Spectrum Community](https://spectrum.chat/react-static) where you can ask all the questions you want.

IF YOU OPEN AN ISSUE AS A QUESTION ABOUT IMPLEMENTATION, IT WILL BE CLOSED IMMEDIATELY AND YOU WILL BE DIRECTED TO JOIN THE [SPECTRUM COMMUNITY](https://spectrum.chat/react-static)
-->

### Are you reporting a bug?

<!--
If you answered "Yes":

  Provide as much information as you can to reproduce the issue.
  **If the issue is not reproducible, it can't be fixed!**

If you answere "No":

  Remove this section.
-->

### Is this a feature request?

<!--
If you answered "Yes":
  Describe why you need the feature, not what it will do.
  Implementation details will come later. Explain your use case
  as well as you can.

If you answered "No":

  Remove this section
-->

### Environment

1.  `react-static -V`:
2.  `node -v`:
3.  `npm -v`:
4.  Operating system:
5.  Browser and version (if relevant):

### Steps to Reproduce the problem

**Base your steps off of any freshly installed react-static template!**

1.  ...
2.  ...
3.  ...

### Expected Behavior

<!--
What would be the correct behavior?
-->

### Reproducible Demo

<!--
If possible paste a link to an example repo with instructions to reproduce the issue.
Remember, iff we cannot reproduce the issue quickly, it cannot be fixed quickly.
-->

Commit message:

use envinfo to report environment

.github/issue_template.md, after:

<!--
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR HELP OR HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT IMPLEMENTATION?
If so, then STOP right there! We have a dedicated [Spectrum Community](https://spectrum.chat/react-static) where you can ask all the questions you want.

IF YOU OPEN AN ISSUE AS A QUESTION ABOUT IMPLEMENTATION, IT WILL BE CLOSED IMMEDIATELY AND YOU WILL BE DIRECTED TO JOIN THE [SPECTRUM COMMUNITY](https://spectrum.chat/react-static)
-->

### Are you reporting a bug?

<!--
If you answered "Yes":

  Provide as much information as you can to reproduce the issue.
  **If the issue is not reproducible, it can't be fixed!**

If you answere "No":

  Remove this section.
-->

### Is this a feature request?

<!--
If you answered "Yes":
  Describe why you need the feature, not what it will do.
  Implementation details will come later. Explain your use case
  as well as you can.

If you answered "No":

  Remove this section
-->

### Environment

Run `npx envinfo --system --npmPackages react* --binaries --npmGlobalPackages react* --browsers` and copy it here:

```

YOUR ENV INFO HERE FOR DEBUGGING

```

of course if you have other packages you're using feel free to include those versions too

### Steps to Reproduce the problem

**Base your steps off of any freshly installed react-static template!**

1.  ...
2.  ...
3.  ...

### Expected Behavior

<!--
What would be the correct behavior?
-->

### Reproducible Demo

<!--
If possible paste a link to an example repo with instructions to reproduce the issue.
Remember, iff we cannot reproduce the issue quickly, it cannot be fixed quickly.
-->
